Contribute basic troubleshooting guide for endusers (#10)
openebs/mayastor-docs: quickstart/troubleshooting.md

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="List all Mayastor pods" %}
```sh
kubectl -n mayastor get pods -o wide
```
{% endtab %}
{% tab title="Output example" %}
```
NAME                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE   IP             NODE       NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
mayastor-csi-7pg82      2/2     Running   0          15m   10.0.84.131    worker-2   <none>           <none>
mayastor-csi-gmpq6      2/2     Running   0          15m   10.0.239.174   worker-1   <none>           <none>
mayastor-csi-xrmxx      2/2     Running   0          15m   10.0.85.71     worker-0   <none>           <none>
mayastor-qgpw6          1/1     Running   0          14m   10.0.85.71     worker-0   <none>           <none>
mayastor-qr84q          1/1     Running   0          14m   10.0.239.174   worker-1   <none>           <none>
mayastor-xhmj5          1/1     Running   0          14m   10.0.84.131    worker-2   <none>           <none>
moac-b8f4446b5-r5gwk    3/3     Running   0          15m   10.244.2.2     worker-2   <none>           <none>
nats-6fdd6dfb4f-swlm8   1/1     Running   0          16m   10.244.3.2     worker-0   <none>           <none>
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### moac's log file

> It is the control plane of Mayastor. There is only one moac container running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`moac` is the control plane of Mayastor. There is only one `moac` container running
```

Mar 09 10:44:47.711 info [pool-operator]: Initializing pool operator
Mar 09 10:44:47.729 info [pool-operator]: Created CRD mayastorpool
Mar 09 10:44:47.787 debug [watcher]: mayastorpool watcher with 0 objects was started
Mar 09 10:44:47.788 trace: Initial content of the "mayastorpool" cache:
Mar 09 10:44:47.788 info: Warming up will take 7 seconds ...
Mar 09 10:44:53.335 debug [csi]: probe request (ready=false)
Mar 09 10:44:54.201 debug [csi]: probe request (ready=false)
Mar 09 10:44:54.788 info [volume-operator]: Initializing volume operator
Mar 09 10:44:54.803 info [volume-operator]: Created CRD mayastorvolume
Mar 09 10:44:56.339 debug [csi]: probe request (ready=false)
Mar 09 10:44:57.340 debug [csi]: probe request (ready=false)
Mar 09 10:44:57.861 debug [watcher]: mayastorvolume watcher with 0 objects was started
Mar 09 10:44:57.861 trace: Initial content of the "mayastorvolume" cache:
Mar 09 10:44:57.866 info [api]: API server listening on port 4000
Mar 09 10:44:57.866 info: MOAC is warmed up and ready to 🚀
Mar 09 10:44:58.206 debug [csi]: probe request (ready=true)
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### mayastor's log file

> It is the data plane of Mayastor. There are as many mayastor containers as many

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are as many mayastor containers as 
```

> storage nodes have been configured. This log file is useful when troubleshooting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
storage nodes have been configured. This log file is most useful when troubleshooting
```

> IO errors but not only that. Management operations could also fail because of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IO errors. Management operations could also fail because of
```

a problem on the storage node.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Example obtaining mayastor's log" %}
```sh
kubectl -n mayastor logs mayastor-qgpw6 mayastor
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### mayastor CSI agent's log file

When having a problem with (un)mounting volume on an application node, this log
file can be useful. Generally all nodes in the cluster run mayastor CSI agent,
so it's good to know which node is having the problem and inspect the log file
only on that node.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Example obtaining mayastor CSI driver's log" %}
```sh
kubectl -n mayastor logs mayastor-csi-7pg82 mayastor-csi
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### CSI sidecars

> These containers implement CSI spec for Kubernetes and run in the same pods

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These containers implement the CSI spec for Kubernetes and run in the same pods
```

> with moac and mayastor-csi containers. Although that they are not part of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with moac and mayastor-csi containers. Although they are not part of
```

> Mayastor software, can contain useful information when Mayastor CSI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mayastor, they can contain useful information when Mayastor CSI
```

control/node plugin fails to register with k8s cluster.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Obtaining CSI control containers logs" %}
```sh
kubectl -n mayastor logs $(kubectl -n mayastor get pod -l app=moac -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}") csi-attacher
kubectl -n mayastor logs $(kubectl -n mayastor get pod -l app=moac -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}") csi-provisioner
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Example obtaining CSI node container log" %}
```sh
kubectl -n mayastor logs mayastor-csi-7pg82 csi-driver-registrar
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## Coredumps

> Coredump is a snapshot of process' memory with auxiliary information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Coredump is a snapshot of process' memory with auxiliary information
```

(PID, state of registers, etc.) saved to a file. It is used for post-mortem
analysis and it is generated by the operating system in case of a severe error
(i.e. memory corruption). Using a coredump for a problem analysis requires
deep knowledge of program internals and is usually done only by developers.
However, there is a very useful piece of information that even users can
retrieve and this information alone can often identify the root cause of
the problem. It is the stack (backtrace). Put differently, the thing that the
program was doing at the time when it crashed. Here we describe how to get it.

> The steps apply to Ubuntu OS. However different Linux distros would use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The steps apply to Ubuntu, but different Linux distros will have
```

> similar steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

We rely on systemd-coredump that saves and manages coredumps on the system,
`coredumpctl` utility that is part of the same package and finally
the `gdb` debugger.

{% tabs %}

> {% tab title="Install systemd-coredump and gdb" %}

Reviewer 3: what about lz4cat, is it already present on ubuntu?

Author: I will address this comment in following PR 👍

```
TIME                            PID   UID   GID SIG COREFILE  EXE
Tue 2021-03-09 17:43:46 UTC  206366     0     0   6 present   /bin/mayastor
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

If there is a new coredump from mayastor container, the coredump alone won't
be that useful. GDB needs to access the binary of crashed process in order
to be able to print at least some information in the backtrace. For that, we
need to copy the contents of the container's filesystem to the host.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Get ID of the mayastor container" %}
```sh
docker ps | grep mayadata/mayastor
```
{% endtab %}
{% tab title="Output example" %}
```
b3db4615d5e1        mayadata/mayastor                          "sleep 100000"           27 minutes ago      Up 27 minutes                           k8s_mayastor_mayastor-n682s_mayastor_51d26ee0-1a96-44c7-85ba-6e50767cd5ce_0
d72afea5bcc2        mayadata/mayastor-csi                      "/bin/mayastor-csi -…"   7 hours ago         Up 7 hours                              k8s_mayastor-csi_mayastor-csi-xrmxx_mayastor_d24017f2-5268-44a0-9fcd-84a593d7acb2_0
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Copy container's filesystem" %}
```sh

> docker cp b3db4615d5e1:/ /tmp/rootdir

Reviewer 3: Should probably fine tune the docker cp to what's strictly necessary as it's copying literally everything including the hosts proc.

Reviewer 3: bin/mayastor and /nix seems to be enough

Author: I will address this comment in following PR 👍
